# Crack propagation through media using nonlocal PDE

See Reference.

# Requirements

MATLAB with image processing toolbox

OR,

OCTAVE 

# Usage

* To create the reference neighbourhood array.
`ref = nbd();` Took 48s on my CPU.

* Draw the initial mesh for the slab with a pre-notch
`drawmesh(ref);  `

* Create the final neighbourhood array for the cracked slab, from the initial array
`final = proj(ref);   `  This is where all the computations happen.

* Draw the final array
`drawmesh(final);  `
* You can plot the neighbourhood weight matrix using
`nbdmap(final);`
* You can plot the relative neighbourhood weight matrix by
`damamge(final);`
* You can zoom in and out on the picture generated by `drawmesh();`.

# Axisymmetric model
* Generate a rectangular mesh _without_ any precrack using `ref_axisymm = nbd_axisymm()`
* If you haven't generated the parameters involving the influence functions yet, do that using `genlam(ref_axisymm)`. So far, this is a long process. It took 11  mins on an i7 7th gen processor.
* If the parameters are already generated and are saved to `Lam_00, Lam_10, Lam_20` .mat files, load them and produce a few global variables using
`genparams(ref_axisymm)`
* Run the time integration loop using `[final_axisymm, uvec_r, uvec_z] = proj_axisymm(ref_axisymm)`. This is fairly quick.
* Plot the displacement vectors for each point using `plotdispl([uvec_r, uvec_z], i)`, where `i=1,2,3` are for r component, z component and the norm of the vector.
* Draw the mesh using `drawmesh(final_axisymm)`

# Reference

Studies of dynamic crack propagation and crack branching with peridynamics 
Youn Doh Ha, Florin Bobaru
Link: http://digitalcommons.unl.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1070&context=engineeringmechanicsfacpub

Special thanks to Dr. Jeremy Trageser for teaching the course.

# Todo

Faster mesh generation and other shapes of pre-notch
